P8105 Final Project New Proposal
================
Varvy Rousseau, Justin Vargas, Nerugi Ravzanaadii
2022-11-28

Project Title: New York City and Average Total Pay By Borough in 2022

Group members: Varvara Rousseau (ver2117) Nergui Ravzanaadii (nr2774),
and Justin Vargas (jdv2118).

Motivation: New York City (NYC) is recognized as having the largest city
and regional economies in the United States (Wikipedia, 2022). If New
York City were an individual country, it would be ranked as the 10th
largest global economy (Wikipedia, 2022). Our motivation for this
project is to use the skills that we have learned in Data Science I and
apply them to answer imperative questions about NYC, such as which NYC
borough yields the highest and lowest average total pay, which would
combine salary, overtime, and other pay, in 2022 from data related to
New York City’s budget on the salaries and overtime pay of municipal
employees.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_New_York_City#>:\~:text=The%20economy%20of%20New%20York,the%20world’s%20premier%20financial%20center.
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Economy_of_New_York_(state)>

The anticipated data sources: The data is from the NYC Open data and it
was collected because NYC residents were interested in how the City’s
budget is being allocated on salary and overtime pay for municipal
employees. This dataset is by the Office of Payroll Administration(OPA).
Here is the link to the dataset:
<https://data.cityofnewyork.us/City-Government/Citywide-Payroll-Data-Fiscal-Year-/k397-673e>

The intended final products: We will produce a website that is dedicated
to our project and has sections that pertain to each deliverable. A 2
minute screencast of our motivation, key results, will be filmed and
uploaded on the website. One of the deliverables would be a map of the
boroughs in New York City and the median total pay by borough. Another
deliverable would be exploratory visualizations such as bar graphs, and
scatterplots of the distributions and relationships of the variables
within the dataset, such as base salary, boroughs, total other pay,
total overtime paid, over time hours. A detailed report of the steps
taken to achieve our project, the changes that we made and as well as
the results of the analyses.

The planned analyses, visualizations, and coding challenges: We plan to
perform exploratory data analyses and create visualizations for the
number of employees by borough through a bar graph, percentages of
active, ceased, and on-leave status through a pie chart, and the median
total pay by borough through a bar graph. We also plan to do statistical
analysis by performing an ANOVA to determine if there is a significant
difference in the means of total pay among municipal employees by
borough in 2022 within NYC and another analysis to determine the
boroughs with the highest and lowest average total pay. We would like to
create a scatterplot that details the relationship between base salary
and overtime hours for municipal employees in 2022. As the raw data is
large, we do foresee coding challenges in terms of determining what data
to filter and use for the project. We also anticipate coding challenges
with performing ANOVAs and other analyses in the aforementioned manner
on this dataset.

Planned timeline: During the weekend of November 26-27, we will begin
coding for the project. We will divide tasks among our team members,
tidy the data, and create visualizations. On November 28-30, we will
conduct the ANOVA tests and finalize all coding pertaining to
exploratory data analysis, visualization, and other types of analysis.
On Dec 1-4, we will start writing the report and making our website. On
December 5-6, we will film the screencast and edit the written report.
On December 7-8, we will conduct a peer assessment and practice our
presentation. On December 9, we will have a final meeting to review the
whole project prior to submitting it.
