Final Project Proposal
================
Varvy Rousseau, Justin Vargas, Ashwini Varghese, Nerugi Ravzanaadii
2022-11-12

Project Title: Health Insurance Costs in Residential Regions in the
United States Group members: Varvara Rousseau (ver2117), Ashwini
Varghese (amv2204), Nergui Ravzanaadii (nr2774), and Justin Vargas
(jdv2118).  
Motivation: The U.S. is one of the top nations in the world regarding
its financial prowess and resources, however, one flaw is the cost of
healthcare. Total spending on healthcare has increased over time; in
2020, U.S. healthcare spending increased by 9.7 %, with total spending
on healthcare adding to 4.1 trillion, dividing the funds to about
\$12,530 per person (U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services). Our
motivation for this project is to use the skills that we have learned in
Data Science I and apply them to answer questions and draw conclusions
from data related to healthcare costs throughout the regions of the
United States in 2018.  
The anticipated data sources: The data is from Kaggle and can be found
at this link: <https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/mirichoi0218/insurance>.
This dataset is based on demographic statistics from the US Census
Bureau located in the book “Machine Learning with R” by Brett Lantz.
Please note that this dataset may be simulated as we are unsure if it is
a real dataset. The intended final products: We will produce a website
that is dedicated to our project and has sections that pertain to each
deliverable we will create for submission. A 2 minute screencast of our
motivation, key results, and a link to our GitHub Repo used for
collaboration will also be on the website. One of the deliverables would
be a map of the regions in the US and the average cost of health
insurance by region. Another deliverable would be exploratory
visualizations such as bar graphs, histograms, and scatterplots of the
distributions and relationships of the variables within the dataset,
such as sex, whether the individual smokes, age, BMI, and number of
children. A detailed report of the steps taken to achieve our project
and the changes that we made along the way will also be provided. The
planned analyses, visualizations, and coding challenges: We plan to
perform exploratory data analyses and create visualizations for the
number of children through a bar graph, percentages of men and women
through a pie chart, and the number of individuals within each age group
through a bar graph. We also plan to do statistical analysis by
performing an ANOVA to determine if there is a significant difference in
the means of health insurance costs between the different regions of the
United States. We would like to create a histogram that details the
relationship between Insurance costs and the different regions of the
United States. As the raw data is tidy, we do not foresee any coding
challenges with data wrangling, but we do anticipate coding challenges
with performing ANOVAs in the aforementioned manner on this dataset.
Planned timeline: On November 15-19, we will have two meetings after the
proposal is approved to discuss and start coding for the project. We
will tidy the data a bit more, conduct the ANOVA tests and start
creating the visualizations. On November 28- December 2, we would meet
again after Thanksgiving break to start going over what we have done
already and starting writing the report and making our website.On
December 3-5, we will film and edit both the screencast and the written
report. On December 5-7, we will conduct a peer assessment and practice
our presentation. On December 9, we will have a final meeting to go over
the whole project prior to submitting.
<https://www.cms.gov/Research-Statistics-Data-and-Systems/Statistics-Trends-and-Reports/NationalHealthExpendData/NationalHealthAccountsHistorical>
